I have a 9 year old Badger 1 that needs replacing, will this Badger 1 install just like the original one?:I replaced my old one with this without a hitch.
model number:This may help InSinkErator Model BADGER-1: Badger 1 1/3 HP Garbage Disposal PRODUCT DETAILS - Bellacor Number:309641 / UPC:050375000419 Brand SKU:500181
can I replace Badger 1 1/3 with a Badger 5 1/2 - with same connections?:Plumbing connections will vary with different models. Usually the larger higher amp draw wil not affect the wiring, the disposals are designed to a basic standard setup common to all brands. They want you to buy their brand or version or model. As long as the disposal is UL listed, United Laboratories, they will setup and bolt up the same.
Does this come with power cord and dishwasher hook up?:It does not come with a power cord. It does come with the dishwasher hookup.
loud noise inside when turned on. sounds like blades are loose:Check if you dropped something inside.Usually my wife put lemons inside make a lot of noise and I will have to get them out using my hands or mechanical fingers .
where is the reset button located:on the bottom
I have a badger 5 it is leaking water at bottom near reset bottom plus does a new one came with a ss ring for inside the sink:If your garbage disposal is leaking out the bottom near the reset button, you most likely have a leak in the metal plate that is located directly under the blades. This plate is designed to protect the electrically powered parts of the motor (the rotor, the shaft, etc.) from moisture, but it is rather thin and is only made of galvanized steel. After a year or two, especially if you use highly acidic cleaners which you rinse down your sink, the zinc layer will corrode and expose the steel, which will then also start to corrode, until something hard eventually pokes some kind of hole through the plate somewhere (could be somewhere very small), signaling the end of the machine's service life. The plate is not meant to be repaired, only replaced along with the rest of the unit. That water is getting through to your rotor is an electrical hazard, and should be dealt with immediately (by removing the damaged unit). The manufacturer has figured out that the blades need to me made of stainless steel, but has chosen to skimp on making other interior parts of this more-expensive metal. Good luck!
If no power cord is included, how do I plug in the disposal unit?:I ttok mine off of the broken unit and installed it on the new one.
Can someone tell me if this Badger 5 disposer is simple to replace (with my old broken Badger 5)? (i.e. Can I do it myself vs. hiring a plumber ):I replaced my a couple of months ago, I'm semi-handy fixing a lot of small stuff around the house. I'm small and in my late seventies, the only problem was holding the unit up in place while turning the locking ring. I no longer have the upper body strength to do it so I used a stack of books. Made sure all the connections were tight and have had so problems since. It clean and in good shape so I left the old badger mount in the sink. Took about forty min, but a lot of that was getting the books.
Is this Badger 5 compatible with the Badger 5 model 5-81? Same size and fittings?:It fit the same as the one we replaced
will this one work to replace the badger 1 1/3 HP:Yes it will. The sink connector is even the same
so can this unit be connected with a dishwasher or do I need a different model?:yes, I did it with mine.
How easy to replace existing badger 1 with badger 5?:Not difficult as long as you have a helper or something to prop up the replacement as you screw it into place.
My present disposal has a 3 bolt connection. Would changing to the twist type connection for a new disposal make installation complicated?:If I understand your present disposal 3 bolts the twist type should be no problem. When you order it is a bit confusing as to what comes with the disposal. When they show people often order some things when the get the disposal. You don't need any of those it all come with it the only thing you might need would be some different drain pipe but most likely you won't. I hope I was some help. Bill
Does the unit come with the rubber collar or do I need to buy that separately?:If you mean the rubber collar that is visible when looking at the drain, with the rubber flaps, then yes it does.
is there a connection for the dish washer:yes.
burner plates for electric glass cooktops? Can burner plates be used for electric glass cooktops?:I'm looking for the same item because I have a small espresso machine that has a footprint much smaller than the smallest burner. Is there anything that's on the market for such an issue? Glass tops are a pain.
I have a electic stove that has varying sizes of burners. here its mentioned as 8 inch. What can i do for small burners ? How many plates in package?:I use the Nordic on all size electric burners. It instructs to turn the heat to medium after achieving full heat. This is important to prevent warping. Only one per pkg. Beware - treated with something that smells terrible until it burns off.
can these be used for gas stove burner?:yes it can.i use it on my grills side burner to slow boil leftover marinades and veggies.
is this for electric stoves?:This is purportedly for all heat sources. Heat is heat and the heat WILL distort this sooner or later. My stove was electric and the first time I used it, it warped. If you want to hammer it out after using it, give it a shot. Heat diffusers are a good thing for cooking, particularly on an electric stove which is notorious for hot spots. It's warped but I still use it.
Hi, I'm interested in this product. Can it be used over induction stove top as an adapter plate for non-induction cookware? How's the transfer of heat:I don't see how it could be used that way, no. I ordered one for that same purpose assuming it was a solid plate, but this is a stamped steel disc with a raised rim for it to slip over a conventional burner. The only way I could see it working on an induction cooktop would be to place it upside down and then use a pan or pot that is smaller than the raised rim.
can you bake corn bread on this without it burnding.:this is a flat diffuser for a burner. it distributes heat evenly and prevents thinner steel pans from scorching. can be used for toasting tortillas, not for other direct food applicatioms. pots and pans only.
Can this be used on gas stove when making polenta which needs low heat.:Yes, I think it should be fine. I've been using mine on a gas stove with no problems.
just bought a new alum Pressure Cooker/found in manual that it shouldn't be used on my ceramic stovetop.Any ideas? do I have to get a hotplate or a ..:maybe a single electric burner?
Do these work on induction cooktops?:It is my understanding that these were made for standard electric and gas burners. As they are metal I do not think they would work for induction cooktops. My suggestion would be to contact the induction top manufacturer for an expert answer. Sincerely, C. Dalzell
Will this keep pour-over coffee carafe contents warmed atop a gas range flame?:Probably, and maybe too much. I use mine to prepare small batches of sauce (experimental stuff) and it's hot enough, even with the gas on low on my middle size burner, to get a slow boil. I would not recommend a glass carafe, personal preference, but a metal type.
burner plates for electric glass cooktops? Can burner plates be used for electric glass cooktops?:I'm looking for the same item because I have a small espresso machine that has a footprint much smaller than the smallest burner. Is there anything that's on the market for such an issue? Glass tops are a pain.
I have a electic stove that has varying sizes of burners. here its mentioned as 8 inch. What can i do for small burners ? How many plates in package?:I use the Nordic on all size electric burners. It instructs to turn the heat to medium after achieving full heat. This is important to prevent warping. Only one per pkg. Beware - treated with something that smells terrible until it burns off.
can these be used for gas stove burner?:yes it can.i use it on my grills side burner to slow boil leftover marinades and veggies.
is this for electric stoves?:This is purportedly for all heat sources. Heat is heat and the heat WILL distort this sooner or later. My stove was electric and the first time I used it, it warped. If you want to hammer it out after using it, give it a shot. Heat diffusers are a good thing for cooking, particularly on an electric stove which is notorious for hot spots. It's warped but I still use it.
Hi, I'm interested in this product. Can it be used over induction stove top as an adapter plate for non-induction cookware? How's the transfer of heat:I don't see how it could be used that way, no. I ordered one for that same purpose assuming it was a solid plate, but this is a stamped steel disc with a raised rim for it to slip over a conventional burner. The only way I could see it working on an induction cooktop would be to place it upside down and then use a pan or pot that is smaller than the raised rim.
can you bake corn bread on this without it burnding.:this is a flat diffuser for a burner. it distributes heat evenly and prevents thinner steel pans from scorching. can be used for toasting tortillas, not for other direct food applicatioms. pots and pans only.
Can this be used on gas stove when making polenta which needs low heat.:Yes, I think it should be fine. I've been using mine on a gas stove with no problems.
just bought a new alum Pressure Cooker/found in manual that it shouldn't be used on my ceramic stovetop.Any ideas? do I have to get a hotplate or a ..:maybe a single electric burner?
Do these work on induction cooktops?:It is my understanding that these were made for standard electric and gas burners. As they are metal I do not think they would work for induction cooktops. My suggestion would be to contact the induction top manufacturer for an expert answer. Sincerely, C. Dalzell
Will this keep pour-over coffee carafe contents warmed atop a gas range flame?:Probably, and maybe too much. I use mine to prepare small batches of sauce (experimental stuff) and it's hot enough, even with the gas on low on my middle size burner, to get a slow boil. I would not recommend a glass carafe, personal preference, but a metal type.
How many test kits are there in a box. How mant times can I test the water:just once. there are several types of test in the box but they're each designed to only be used once.
how many strips come in the kit, I need at least 12:The kit contains ONE strip per test. So if you want to test 12 water sources you could pool them. A better plan might be to buy two kits and test a pool of 6 water sources for each. That way if one set is positive, you only need to buy 6 more, for a total of 8 kits, rather than 12.
can more than one water source be tested?:no, there is only one test kit for each substance. You could only test two if you mixed them together and did it as a pooled sample.
Has anyone used this to test for lead? Do you think it's accurate?:We used it to test for lead and we have no reason to believe the result was inaccurate. All of its other tests gave results that made me feel like the test was genuine.
I thought this had been endorsed by epa or state of OH as a home test option, but now I cannot find that on their websites. Does anyone endorse it?:The state doesn't have any protocols for rapid screening tests
does it have a colour indicator?:All the tests are based on color . For the lead test, it's a line indicator.
Does this kit tell you the amount of nitrates, or just tell you its too high?:You would need to go through a lab to get the exact amount. With this kit you follow a color chart and compare to the EPA standard
Is there an expiration date on any of the tests?:YES. On the back side of the plastic packaging which houses the contents including the instructions and different package envelopes which contain the chemicals for the variety of tests. There are no dates on the individual test envelopes that I can see. BUT there is definitely an expiration date on the back outside of the clear plastic packaging right next to the words "Watersafe City Water Test Kit." I hope this is a clear explanation and that it helps.
does it test Coliform/ E. Coli ??:It has a test for bacteria for example E.Coli, however the bacteria test does not specify what kind you have in there.
does this test forlead:Yes it does.
filter for vicks3:Filter for vicks3 is NOT a question. What are you asking?
I have not purchased the humidifier that uses this filter yet, but on average how long does this filter last a rough estimate?:The outer shell will fall apart in about a year of use, but the filter itself can survive much longer. Mine split at the seam, so it's no longer round, but it still fits in the humidifier, and does its job. Cleaning the filter every week (especially if you have hard water) will degrade the material over time. I've used one in this manner for 3 years so far.
I need to replace a Holmes wick HWF-65T. Does this filter fit?:The only humidifiers that this will fit are Sunbeam SCM866, SCM1895, and SCM1896 and Holmes HM1865 and HM1895 according to the filter box. So I think the answer to your question is "No". Sorry.
will this be replacement for holmes model hm 1745 filter? Dimensions 61/2 x 19 x 1:Its generic and does not work in a Holmes humidifier!!!
